# ZipLink

ZipLink is a URL shortener application built with Go and Fiber framework. It allows users to create custom short URLs for long URLs, making them easier to share and manage.

## Features
- **Custom Short URLs**: Users can create custom short URLs according to their preferences.
- **Expiration**: Optionally set an expiration time for short URLs.
- **Rate Limiting**: Rate limiting to prevent abuse and ensure fair usage.
- **Swagger Documentation**: Swagger UI integration for API documentation.
- **Dockerized**: Docker and Docker Compose setup for easy deployment.


## Tech Stack
- **Go**: Backend language
- **Fiber**: Web framework for Go
- **Redis**: Backend data store for storing short URLs and rate limiting information
- **Docker**: Containerization for deployment
- **Swagger**: API documentation


## Installation
1. Clone the repository:
    ```
    git clone https://github.com/sachin-404/ZipLink.git
    ```
2. Navigate to the project directory:
    ```
    cd ZipLink
    ```
3. Set up environment variables:

    Create a .env file in the project root directory and specify the following environment variables:
    ```
    DB_ADDRESS="db:6379"
    DB_PASSWORD=""
    APP_PORT=":3000"
    DOMAIN="localhost:3000"
    API_QUOTA=10
    ```
4. Build and run the Docker containers:
    ```
    docker compose up --build
    ```
5. Access the application at `http://localhost:3000.`

## Usage
- **Shorten a URL**: Send a POST request to /api/v1 with the long URL in the request body. Optionally, you can provide a custom short URL and expiration time.

- **Resolve a Short URL**: Access the shortened URL generated by the application to be redirected to the original long URL.

- **API Documentation**: Access Swagger UI documentation at http://localhost:3000/docs for detailed API documentation.

